Beautiful Soup is a Python package for parsing HTML and XML documents. It creates a parse tree for parsed pages that can be used to extract data from HTML, which is useful for web scraping.

1) what is bs4 in python?

bs4 — BeautifulSoup 4. Beautiful Soup is a Python library for pulling data out of HTML and XML files.

2) what is gensim in python?

Gensim is implemented in Python and Cython. Gensim is designed to handle large text collections using data streaming and incremental online algorithms, which differentiates it from most other machine learning software packages that target only in-memory processing.

3) what is nltk in python?

The Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK) is a platform used for building Python programs that work with human language data for applying in statistical natural language processing (NLP). It contains text processing libraries for tokenization, parsing, classification, stemming, tagging and semantic reasoning.

4) what is itertools in python?

The Python itertools module is a collection of tools for handling iterators. Simply put, iterators are data types that can be used in a for loop. The most common iterator in Python is the list.

5) what is WordNetLemmatizer?

Lemmatization is the process of grouping together the different inflected forms of a word so they can be analysed as a single item. Lemmatization is similar to stemming but it brings context to the words. So it links words with similar meaning to one word.

Text preprocessing includes both Stemming as well as Lemmatization. Many times people find these two terms confusing. Some treat these two as same. Actually, lemmatization is preferred over Stemming because lemmatization does morphological analysis of the words.

Applications of lemmatization are:


    Used in comprehensive retrieval systems like search engines.
    Used in compact indexing

 Examples of lemmatization:

-> rocks : rock
-> corpora : corpus
-> better : good

6) what is requests module in python?

What Is Requests Module? Requests is a Python module that you can use to send all kinds of HTTP requests. It is an easy-to-use library with a lot of features ranging from passing parameters in URLs to sending custom headers and SSL Verification.
